#summary Install VirtualBox Web Console
#labels Phase-Deploy

= How to install/setup VirtualBox Web Console =

== Prepare the environment ==

Please note that you have to respect the installation order to get VBox Web Console working! For example you first have to install Python before installing the extensions - otherwise the extensions installer won't find Python on your system.

 # In the first step download and install *Python 2.6* from [http://python.org/download/] 
 # Only on Windows: Now download and install the *Python Win32 Extensions* package from [http://python.net/crew/mhammond/win32/Downloads.html]
 # Last but not least download and install at least *VirtualBox 3.x* from [http://www.virtualbox.org/] and make sure you selected the option "VirtualBox Python Support" on the installer's feature page.

*Warning:* If you already installed an older version (or beta) of VirtualBox on your machine, please re-install it using the latest version at [http://www.virtualbox.org/] because of the missing VirtualBox Python bindings.

To execute Python scripts everywhere on your system (and you need to for getting VBox Web Console to work later) you need to add you Python installation directory to your PATH variable.

== Get VBox Web Console ==
 
=== Check out the code ===

Install SubVersion (SVN) from [http://subversion.tigris.org/] and check out the latest sources from

<code>svn checkout http://vboxweb.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ vboxweb-read-only</code>

The above command gets all the sources of VBox Web Console into a directory called "vboxweb-read-only". From now on we're using the placeholder "root" for this directory. Please note that you cannot put back (commit) changes to the sources unless you have write access to the repository.

== Running VBox Web Console ==

Now that you installed and set up all the required components, let's try out starting up 
VBox Web Console the first time! To do so, first start the server part of VBox Web Console by entering

<code>python VBoxWeb.py</code>

in your command line (you have to be in your "root" directory -- see paragraph above). If nothing went wrong the server now is running.

Now open your browser (currently only IE 7+8 and Firefox are tested) and type in the URL

<code>localhost</code>

to see VBox Web Console in action. Depending on whether you already have some virtual machines configured yet you should see them in the VM list on the left side.

If you're done using/testing VBoxWeb console, press CTRL+C in your console window to quit the server part and close the web browser.

== Troubleshooting ==

*Question:* The VBox Python binding does not seem to work! What's wrong?

*Answer:* If you installed Python in the directory "C:\Python26", check out if the directory "C:\Python26\Lib\site-packages\vboxapi" exists. If this doesn't exist, re-install VirtualBox with "VirtualBox Python Support" selected.

----

*Question:* VBox Web Console wants to run on port 80, but this port is already taken of "insert-your-favorite-app-here". What to do now?

*Answer:* Go to your "root" directory of VBoxWeb and edit the file called "VBoxWeb.conf". Go to the line "server.socket_port = 80" and just change the "80" to a port you want to set VBoxWeb running on. Then restart the VBoxWeb server application.